# GRAD521_DMPVaughan_2022

Data Managament Plan for the research project of 'Assessing the impact of ghost shrimp on offshore marine invertebrate communities'

Context of the project: My research falls into the field of marine invertebrate ecology, where I am interested in better understanding the impact that offshore ghost shrimp populations have on the surrounding invertebrate communities. Ghost shrimp are a type of burrowing shrimp that rework sediment and play important roles in bioturbation and the cycling of biogeochemical processes. Their burrows enhance water and oxygen exchange, cycle nutrients, and also act as hotspots for organic content, bacteria, and microbial colonization. 

In Oregon, ghost shrimp are commonly found in estuary habitats, where their burrows comprise a dominant habitat type and with their presence altering the surrounding invertebrate communities. In recent years, ghost shrimp have started to colonize offshore habitats they had not previously been found in. It is unknown how their presence may change the makeup (abundance and richness) of offshore invertebrate communities. My research aims to better understand how their colonization may or may change these invertebrate communities. I aim to do this by comparing box core data from 10 years of offshore invertebrate communities when ghost shrimp had not been present, with previous (3 years) and current data on invertebrate communities when they have been present. Specifically, I will be looking at the number of individuals of different species, and what species, were present before and after their colonization.  

